---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Reflecting on Meteor
date: 2016-10-20
labels: 
  -Software Engineering
  -Learning
  -Meteor
---

Meteor takes everything we have learned so far (Semantic UI, HTML, javascript) and mixes them all into one convenient, but not so easy to understand package.  I ran into a slew of troubles here and there, but overall it was a rewarding experience.

My first troubles came from actually running apps properly, not to mention the fact that I haven't used Command Prompts in quite some time since meteor.  During the Digits 1 Assignment, most of, if not all of the class had troubles getting the program to run. It involved a lot of troubleshooting, reinstalling, and updating until it finally worked.  It's a hassle to have things break due to updates and patches, but when working with computers you just need to get used to it and work to figure out a fix.

My other main trouble is one that has happened far too often: forgetting to change the names of elements or closing statements.  I have spent countless times of scanning through my code or rewatching parts of the WOD demonstrations, all for a single typo.  Even the basics come back to haunt experts.

Thankfully actually building meteor apps didn't come with any serious problems besides the two mentioned above.  The templates provided had a very obvious visual effect on the app that made it clear what their function was in the framework of things.  Before meteor, I also wondered dhow linking webpages to each other would work.  I got my answer with the FlowRouter.

In conclusion, Meteor is a very convenient program to use for making web apps.  It has a lot of problems getting it to run with new releases, but it was quite easy to get a hang of beyond that.  
